times and then other times we'd get a room in the sea and and have everybody in the committee and made sure that everybody had a chance to ask questions and I thought it was the coolest there are two things that happened that first semester that were just absolutely phenomenal and it actually started the summer before I got to go up we had a tradition at that time that we took some committee funds and I went up to DC
and went to Tiger Teague's office to meet some guy named Chet Edwards.
And this was in 75 still.
And Chet set me up some appointments.
And another guy, another Aggie named John Howard.
And they got me introduced to another guy named Steve Pringle who was on PUG staff.
And so I got to move around the Capitol, but the most important one was the year before we had Barry Goldwater Jr.
as a speaker, when I was major committee chairman,
our major event chairman, and it fascinated me that Barry Goldwater, Jr.
would step out of a hearing and visit with me for 30 minutes in the hall.
We sat down and just talked, and then he pointed me to several people that I went to that ultimately got on our speakers list.
So those were the really cool ones.
The other one was the green couch of Wayne Stark, but it wasn't in his office.
It was at the MSA Hotel desk.
We talked about this, which is Wayne walking up behind me, blessed started.
At that time, Mr. Stark walking up behind me and in his booming voice going, you did what?
And the long and short of it, obviously, we had invited Bella Absu to be a speaker.
And he thought Tiger Tig would have a conniption fit, and Tiger probably would have.
And I went back and looked at this.
Our replacement for Bella was some economics professor that I was pressured into to bring to talk about energy at that time.
About what was the fee that these big-name politicians got then?
That was the cool thing about PF.
We were in a race.
It was a competition.
All the other student unions used fees.
We didn't.
Our budget, and I've got the record still in the house, was $14,000 for the year.
We paid their expenses, and that was it.
Tiger Teague and Chet and Pogue and some of the, and a lot of Jack Williams.
When we brought Bob Stouse down here and I went to visit with Dr. Williams, the very first thing he said is, we've got to have a reception over in the house.
Would you like to do that?
Absolutely.
Incredible opportunity.
And so we had a chance to bring in people from across the community, but
We didn't pay, and this was a point of contention against us versus Great Issues.
Great Issues was twice our budget.
They paid fees and we didn't, and we got in as top flight talent.
Do you have any favorite recollections of some of the experiences with some of these celebrities?
Two.
And both ends of the extreme.
Actually, three.
I had a really interesting, assertive, some would say combative discussion with Howard Phillips at Shirley Black's house.
Remember Shirley?
And so she was a faculty advisor for political forum at that time.
She was in history.
Yeah.
And I had a very combative experience.
Kathy and I both with Howard.
That didn't get along well.
But the one that I remember the most was sitting, or two of them, was sitting in the dining area over the MSC for like three hours drinking coffee with Frank Mankiewicz and learning how the Kennedys ran campaigns.
I wanted to get into politics by that time.
I was trying to get into the graduate program of political science here.
I was just thrilled with what politics could be, and I wanted to get in on campaigns and do the advance and the events set up, because that's all the MSC was.
And so to sit there and just listen about the Kennedy stories, both Bobby and John and how they ran the campaigns and Larry O'Brien and all this other stuff, I mean, I remember that to this day.
Did Mankiewicz share any details that you now think?
Not that I don't.
I mean, I don't remember.
We talked.
mundane stuff about what it was like to go in and organize little areas.
Did he indicate any hint of anything where they might have stuffed a ballot box or nothing like that?
None there.
That was to happen in the future, but not there.
But it was good.
Bob Strauss was the extreme.
Bob Strauss was the quite dictified chairman of the Democratic Party.
you know, the paramount of statesmen coming to A&M.
And Dr. Williams and Wayne and others just made that an incredible three-day event.
And I mean, we had him down here, we showed him a rant.
He took time to treat, again, students as individuals where you could talk to him.
The reception was incredible over at Dr. Williams' house.
I do remember standing by in that front foyer introducing Ambassador Strauss to everybody in there.
I mean, that was just an absolute thrill.
It was also scary because I was starting to get my confidence up by this time.
When you work around Wayne, you have to.
But that first time I walked into Dr. Williams' office, I mean, I had a frog in my throat.
I had butterflies in my stomach.
I know I was sweating.
and he was about as sociable and put me at ease as quickly as one could, and offered ideas so I didn't have to ask, and all the ideas were the right ones that we were thinking about, but I didn't have the courage to really say, could we do this too?
It set my whole life in a new direction.
What did you and the general student body think of Dr. Williams?
I'm probably a little different than the general student body.
I mean, he came to the MSC.
You know, we did the old big induction banquet at that time for the incoming and outgoing councils and director.
And he came to the one as my incoming president and the one as the outgoing.
And I got books from him both times, so I'm real spoiled on Dr. Williams.
he was the best thing that happened to me, or one of the best things that happened to me and Kathy.
He and John Koldis never started a conversation without asking about Kathy.
And the year I was present, we were already married, so that was kind of an anomaly, and we were grad students, and that was another anomaly.
But he always asked, and what was interesting is, I was in John Koldis's, we'd go to
dinner once a week club as well with the court commander and RHA president, student body president, that kind of stuff.
And John would always ask how Kathy was, and it was really funny.
After we met last Thursday, I'm up on Malin's floor, and John comes out of an office, and the very first thing he says is, how's Kathy?
And we haven't seen each other in years.
And I'm sitting there going, golly, if I could have a memory like that.
So it was really working with those individuals back then.
It was Wayne.
It was all the different advisors that we had in the MSC.
I did a senior studies course under Dr. Stone in management about management techniques that actually led to a re-evaluation of how we did business in the MSC.
There were some really good things happening at that time, not because of the position, but because of the excitement of how A&M was starting to change.
If there was anything that the student body would have, it probably saw a lot of that change taking place.
There was also the differences.
I mean, the wall going up around was a big deal in the student senate firm.
Remember when they started to put up the wall around the campus?
And so there was the bat stories and stuff like that.
We had pink flamingos we had to argue about and Rocky Horror Picture Show and those kind of things.
What was the argument against the wall?
that we were keeping students.
It was never clear.
I mean, it was obviously very porous whether we were keeping students in or keeping people out.
Or was it a waste of money?
Did the students really call him a smiling Jack Williams?
Absolutely.
But it didn't have the negative connotation in some circles that it might have been others.
I mean, in our career,
There was actually, it was always Dr. Williams, and if there was something happening that we didn't really like, it would be Ismail and Jack, but it was mainly, he was the student leadership that I worked with at that time, and was a part of, he and Coltis particularly, I mean, it was, it was, I aspired to be the best.
What was their relationship, as far as you know?
You know, we don't see what goes on behind the scenes.
We thought we did, but we didn't, and I can't tell you,
what actually happened.
We always thought they actually got along well.
Oh, they did.
Superbably.
And so we didn't know anything different than that.
We always knew that Wayne was a waste of trouble.
We always let us know he was in trouble, which was kind of funny too.
And there was the Wayne and Doc Adair fight at that time, because she was starting up student activities and student government.
We gave student government a couple of auspices in the student programs office.
We had all those battles going.
There was Fred McClure typing 200 plus words a minute, if not 255 on an electronic typewriter at night, which just amazed everybody.
I never saw Fred join his class, but you sure heard him typing reports at night up there.
All right, let's make believe that I didn't know this man, Fred McClure.
Tell me about him as an Aggie.
Fred's probably one of the most thoughtful, articulate, focused, driven's not the right term, but he has the energy to achieve things.
and be absolutely down to earth, back slapping person I've ever met.
He was student body president, so he sat on the MSC Council.
Were y'all classmates?
No, because I was a grad student then, and he was 77.
He's one behind you.
But we were contemporaries.
He was student body president, and Rob Harvey was corps commander, and they were on the MSC Council for those positions.
I was speaker pro tem,
So I was in the Senate and we had, Fred had, the city government had an office up in the SPS, so we got to see him quite a bit up there.
Fred was one of those guys that you knew he was gonna achieve things and you kinda wanna figure out a way to watch him grow.
I can remember one of the summers I was up there was the summer he interned for Ford.
And so he was in the old EOB and to go into the old executive office building and see this just great big old office you're going, all right, Fred's got to be set where he's going.
But he was bright and articulate.
You had to be organized to go after him.
And the only reason we packed the,
the Student Senate with MSC people, we took a page from the Corps, was so that when we were arguing student services, we had votes in there, and we didn't have to work overly hard.
We got burned the year before.
But we got engaged in a lot of parliamentary pieces with Fred, and it was challenging.
It was really fun.
And it was funny because when I finished up as president of the MSC, and I was still working on my graduate work, I was elected speaker.
So I was going to have to follow in Fred's footsteps twice removed.
And Rob Harvey was going to be president.
And so that was gonna set up to be an interesting deal and then I ended up going and Chet decided to run that summer, but.
Now Fred, do you remember when you first saw him or anything?
Yeah, it was during the political forum times because he was FFA national president at that time.
But it was during the student senate stuff that really that year I was MSC president.
We were always, he would make most of Coles' weekly dinners.
We got to know each other quite well.
And the fact that he, black, never entered in?
Of course, we were the token Democrats, too, on this campus at that time.
Kathy and we were both active in Young Democrats.
Of course, Fred's active in Young Republicans.
So we had good things to talk about when we got together.
But he always, it was funny, Kathy was always, shouldn't have been, but was always in the, not really in the shadow, that's not the right term,
She's very quiet and Fred would go to great extremes.
A couple others as well, but mainly Fred, to really make her feel on top of the world when she was in the group.
So that's just the kind of person.
So his skin color didn't have anything to do with it.
Smart as a whip, absolutely.
Sharp as a tack.
A neat guy.
And a splendid singer.
Actually, much more so than that.
I mean, he could have had a choice of multiple different things that he's wanted to do in life.
But not many people know, and I think he was typing two to 250 words a minute.
I mean, listening to him on that IBM Selectric up there typing, because we could stay in the SPO until late, late, late.
So we always did.
MSC would lock up.
We had keys to the SBO and the MSC.
The student programs office, which the government office was up on one side and I was on the other side.
Both Fred and I had offices.
And that's where we did studies and that's where we talked through stuff and everything else.
So he was up there a lot as late at night as we were.
And there was a group of about five of us.
Did he ever, as you recall, talk about his goals, what he was hoping to do later?
No, but that was the thing about Fred.
You always knew when he was going to end up in politics somewhere.
The summer he came back and he'd managed Gerald Ford's youth campaign and convention, he was on top of the world.
So he knew exactly where he was going to go.
And, of course, we were doing stuff at the state convention for Calvin Guest at that time.
And so not near on the national scene, but you could really see that he was going places and you knew that he would play a major role.
All right, now one of the key female student leaders that time was Barb Sears.
Barb actually was a little bit ahead of us, yes.
Yeah, she was 74, so she was about two years ahead of Fred and our crew when we came in.
Wasn't she the first?
First woman, yes.
Right.
See, now she was the one that people that I learned under, Jane Nelson and Bill Davis and John Nelson,
She was their contemporary, or Don Webb.
And so there were a lot of times I remember Don lived in our dorm in the Corps, and so Don and Barb were very active in those kind of things.
But that was just as I was starting to break in.
So I was a real new kid.
That just moved real fast once I got in.
This is an editorial note to the typist.
As I recall, when Barbara Sears, from Columbia, Missouri, ran for student body secretary, the voting booths were then in the Cushing Library.
And that she, on the day of the election, put on a very pretty dress,
gave her hair and her makeup particular care, especially her eyes, because she had very striking eyes.
She then had some little small business-sized cards printed with her name on it and secretary.
She stood on the steps.
and as each prospective voter, most of which were male of course, would go up the steps, she would smile at them, blink her eyes two or three times, and then softly say, my name is Barbara Sears, I hope you'll vote for me.
And she won, she won.
Her father, by the way, was a truly world, world, world-class plant geneticist.
No kidding.
All the plant science facilities up there are named in his honor.
He increased the world's production of wheat probably by 20% with his research.
No kidding.
A truly, truly great name.
Well, she was a legend.
You've got to remember, the MSC and student government were fighting at that time over student government fees.
So there were some things we were in great shape on, and some things we were, I mean, it was, the battle lines, the students were mirroring the staff battle lines.
You had Wayne and Carolyn, and the students were no different.
Now, what was neat is we figured out how to make it all work together.
Louie would have a lot more, because he was class president our senior year, junior year, and I think even our sophomore year.
I don't think you made it off weird as I have.
But yeah, Barb was about two years ahead of us.
Let's see.
Now, how did you mix all of these extracurricular activities and your major?
Two things happened.
You know, when I get energized by something, coursework or otherwise, things gel, I still struggle with German as a language.
But I did, I think if we tallied up all my grades in Anthro, I had like a 3-5 or something like that.
And when I did graduate work, I had good grades in there until I decided it was time to go play politics.
And so I kind of lapsed that last summer.
But I had good grades in grad school.
is because I enjoyed the subject.
I mean, the subjects I was taking in poli-sci at that time were how to run campaigns and things of that nature.
So I just totally enjoyed it.
Your junior and senior years, you're still in the Corps.
Right.
What was a typical day's routine for you then?
Hadn't changed.
The junior, senior was different.
But junior had not changed at all from a freshman.
As a junior, we had sophomore rooms.
That means that it was just like a freshman in D2 except that we had only a small carpet in front of the bed to make it easy when we got down.
But you're studying hard.
Studying much harder, making the grades.
Few of us.
In your room or where?
Library.
In the library.
And there were four of us left in the outfit at that time because Louie and Bill Chancey had already gone to staff.
So four juniors in a large outfit.
We won more that year too.
That was our third year.
Where in Cushing Library was your little... It wasn't Cushing.
It was over here in Evans.
Oh, the edition.
Yeah.
First edition.
Yeah, so I'd just find a crack someplace where nobody was.
I started in the MSC, but it was too easy to get plugged into the thing, too many other distractions in the sea.
So I would find that.
But it was really the subject.
I mean, I was a work-study student during that time frame, so I was in anthropology.
junior and senior as a work study student, working that 20 hours a week, and it was outstanding.
And then I started to take, took one of Bruce Robeck's courses on Congress, and so it was just like playing to do the Senate, and so we were doing those kind of things.
So those were fun courses.
All right, during those undergraduate years, who paid the bills for you, Mom and Dad?
We actually, they took out a student loan.
I ended up paying off the student loan.
That was the deal with them.
When Kathy and I got married, she still had a year on her National Merit Scholarship, and so that paid our first year.
We both worked summers, we both worked our way 20 hours a week during school.
Still had the bug?
Had the bug, what was left of it at that time.
Lived in a little bitty duplex right over here behind Albertsons.
What did it cost, remember?
Yeah, $65 a month.
And it was, I mean, we went to great lengths to make it look cool and all that kind of stuff.
But, I mean, the air conditioner didn't work one summer.
And, I mean, it was, we had our challenges.
We like to joke, and it's been funny, because now I keep all of our books for our business and everything, so we haven't bounced checks in eons, but we like to think that we built the bank of A&M through our non-sufficient fund checks.
It was tough, because parents would have liked to have done things, but Kathy's parents didn't agree with her coming to A&M.
Her dad was, they probably wouldn't say that now, but her dad,
was an engineer who had to quit school because his parents couldn't, or he couldn't afford it, strapped in the Army and went to Alaska.
So he didn't like the military.
He didn't like, I think Kathy actually came here to spite him.
And we never, you know, it's always been the two of us and while family has been important, particularly in later years,
It was the two of us doing stuff.
I mean, she was selling, trying to sell Kirby vacuum cleaners.
All right, now in the summer before you got married, you're working on the summers.
Are you saving some of that money for school?
We're trying to.
I mean, literally, Kathy's National Merit Scholarship is what got us through.
because we could live on that, and then I had a small scholarship from the former students the year I was MSC president.
There were some other little things that came in there.
We put as much aside as we could, but it was interesting.
And through all this, to whom did you turn for advice and counsel?
A lot to each other.
We were good friends before we started dating, and that helped.
A lot to Wayne.
Remember any of the advice he gave you?
Yeah, actually it wasn't advice.
It was getting up the courage to ask him if I could actually compete for MSC president.
Because Carolyn Johnson, CJ, bright, sharp lady, ended up becoming an attorney, 3-0.
Really, I had the inside shot, I thought, at getting MSC president.
What did he say?
What advice did he give you?
And so we talked a lot about
where I wanted to go in the future, and if I didn't have the confidence to step up to the plate now, then that might be telling me something, and so that was kind of, okay, you throw it out, and I'll step up to the plate.
And I wasn't sure whether, I mean, my grades were acceptable at that time, but they weren't good enough to get who's who.
It's been interesting because there's been a change.
Things that I couldn't get here
like the RVs in some cases.
But Who's Who in America really bothered me when I saw a lot of my peers up there.
I knew I was everybody as smart as him.
I just didn't have the GPs.
So it was kind of a nice stepping threshold once I got into Marquis Who's Who in America and did those kind of pieces.
So they came later in life.
I just had to get refocused and regoing.
Jack Williams, actually, there were a couple of times that I actually talked to him.
So it was more inspirational than anything else.
Jack was real good about, like John Colas was, about telling me how much better I married because of Kathy.
And she was really a good anchor.
Kathy wasn't the outgoing person, but she really brought a lot of stability and intestinal fortitude to do things.
Other days I'd probably get real distracted and go off and do something else because it was easier.
And so he was really inspirational in talking about us as a couple because we were really different than others at that stage.
We were already married doing these kinds of things.
And while that was of value, he continued after that to take an interest.
I mean, I can still remember going down to the Texas Medical Library and having a couple of lunches with him there.
And he would treat you just as if you were a peer.
And that was very unusual.
And he always made a point whenever we were around him, how he introduced people.
So he was a role model in a lot of ways that I tried to, you know, if I ever got into positions where I was more than an executive rank, I wanted to emulate those.
John Nicholas, on the other hand, was the kind of person that, yes, you could talk a lot of things about.
And so he would be one that I would turn to.
And then there was a lot of peer stuff.
The only one that we really talked a lot about pure things, though, would have been Fred.
And so that was kind of interesting.
Let me turn this up.
You were talking about mentor.
I'll tell you who the real mentor was, and I really, I've known this, and I just didn't talk about it.
Remember Howe Gangs?
Sure.
Howe.
We played golf virtually three or four times a month.
Mm-hmm.
the two years that I, the MS, the PF chairman year and the president year.
Now what was his?
He was number two to Wayne at that stage.
And so he was the, kind of the surrogate father I really didn't have here.
And that's, I mean,
with how you could talk about things.
We did it over golf and we played religiously every weekend there.
Before John Nelson left it was John and Joe Marcello and Hal and I and maybe one other and then after John left it was Joe Marcello and I and Joe was another one that would be a peer support person.
Joe was grad student president at that time and he was my
Council, my consigliore.
Describe as much as you can this campaign for Congress that you worked on for a young man named Ted Edwards.
I can give you a 30-second soundbite.
It's not in the books that Arnie taught me it was supposed to be in.
Arnie Bedlitz, bless his heart, was great at talking about $500,000 million campaigns, and Phil Grahams probably was.
Ours was $48,000, and Chet put $20,000 in of his own money for that media buy two weeks out.
I had great ideas.
I mean, it was so funny.
Chet, he always plays things.
How did you even get involved in the first place?
MSA volunteers.
That's the short answer.
I go up the summer before PF chair.
And Chet set some stuff up.
I talked about wanting to get in politics.
I got active in Tiger's 76 campaign.
Chet was the chair there.
Was very active in Young Democrats.
Got to do some stuff with Calvin Guest at the state events, which was really cool stuff.
Kept pestering Chet about if he ever runs for something I want to run, help him.
I mean, I was coming up with, I was taking Artie's core,
coursework trying to convert it into a campaign plan for Chet.
And bless Chet's hearts, he didn't say no, but I mean, I had how we would organize things on campus and how I could extrapolate it out.
Chet was looking for somebody that, I mean, I don't know, it'd be interesting to find out sometime what he was looking for.
But he and Marvin Collins, who is a strategist, who actually worked for Bush Sr.
for a while,
And Kathy and I come up, and we did a two-hour lunch up in Corsa Canada, Holiday Inn.
And all leading up to, would you like to work for Chet?
Yes.
What's it pay?
$300 a month.
This is about how long before the... This would have been July of 77.
And so I basically started thinking about all this and going full-time and starting to play on it.
In August, we moved up here, moved up to Dallas in August.
Kathy got a job through her Kellehert Southwest Airlines.
And so she paid for the family, and I went to work for Chad.
And we put 100-plus thousand miles on the van and on his car.
We started off with nothing.
We did 78 cities in two weeks.
We did a 78 city in two weeks.
Describe geographically the district.
District was 11 counties.
Southern Inn was the end of Brazos County.
We went up to part of Dallas County and over west of Fort Worth and all points in between.
And it was... Among the candidates was a weather... There were six candidates in the primary.
And the strategy was whoever made it to the runoff,
with Ron Godby.
Ron Godby was a winner.
Whoever made it to the runoff, chances are they would beat Godby because his support was real soft.
He didn't have organization.
He had angered so many people running against Teague as competitive as he was in 76.
We had another guy that was Phil Graham.
Phil had a ton of money in the bank already.
And then we had a guy named McNeil.
I forget his first name, but he was out of Alvarado.
And he had made tons of money by having these auto parts stores, Don McNeil.
And so he was going to drop in.
He dropped in a couple hundred thousand in the race as well.
And here's poor Chet.
And I mean, we're chilly at Chips and chat with Chet was our receptions.
We had a good base here.
We had a good base in Duncanville.
We had good fundraising support for some ladies up out of Alvarado and in Dallas and Fort Worth.
And we came out of nowhere.
And it was really fascinating because CVs were the real craze at that time.
So I would make runs every other day in the district in that van.
And it was very opposite.
It was a Marine van with white lettering on it.
It was Congress.
We'd be talking on the CV all the time.
You could feel the swell literally the last three weeks.
We knew we were going to win and get in the runoff.
And we knew if we got in the runoff, we were going to beat Ron Gottby.
You could feel it.
You could hear, you could see people turning out at things.
You could see instead of us putting up these big signs that we were putting up on the rural country roads, people would come in and get them and put them up themselves.
people were calling to asking you know where are the yard signs that I need money started to come in when Chet committed the 20,000 we did the media media by we were having we were on as much as McNeil and Graham and we had the week before I can I can remember people in Graham's headquarters here
and in Duncanville saying, what are you guys doing?
You've come out of nowhere.
We were going to win that race.
And when the votes... We were 210 votes ahead, four precincts still outstanding.
The four precincts came in 24 hours late to the hour.
Where were they?
One was in my...